{/*
    -* mdx -*-
    michael a.g. aïvázis <michael.aivazis@para-sim.com>
    (c) 1998-2025 all rights reserved
*/}

{/* external */}
import { Link } from 'react-router-dom'

{/* project */}
import { Camera, Data, Eye, Target, X } from '~/shapes'

{/* local */}
import { Badge } from './badge'
import { Screenshot } from './screenshot'


# <a name="datasets" />Selecting datasets

Let's go back to the back to the folder with the NISAR data samples and load a few more. The
discussion that follows assumes that you have loaded the RSLC, GUNW, and GCOV products, and
given them simple nicknames that correspond to their product type. Clicking on the
<Badge><Data/></Badge> icon will bring up a display that should look something like this:

<Screenshot src="figures/qed-datasets-start.png" />

The activity bar has the <Badge><Data/></Badge> icon highlighted, indicating that this is the
current activity. The activity panel shows four **trays** with the four data readers we have
connected to the app. Each tray displays the location of the associated data product, and a listing
of the available datasets. More on this in a little bit. To the right of the activity panel is a
single empty data pane. That's where the image will eventually show up.

Individual trays can be dismissed, and the corresponding reader disconnected, by clicking on the
<Badge><X /></Badge> icon on the tray title bar.

### <a name="#datasets.selectors" />Working with data selectors

THe NISAR data products are great examples of the power and versatility that HDF5 provides. The data
is arranged in a hierarchical tree with data groups playing the role of intermediate nodes, similar
to directories in a filesystem, and datasets as the leaf nodes, akin to files. The tree structure
is fairly complex and designed to satisfy a collection of constraints that are entirely outside the
scope of a visualization tool. In order to map the group structure into a usable interface, `qed`
introduces the notion of **selectors**, i.e. choices with a discreet set of values that become part
of a filter for identifying a dataset of interest. The fact that it is so much easier to show this
process in action than it is to describe it with words is a testament to the power of the visual
language it represents.

Take the `rslc` reader in the top tray as an example. Its internal group structure has been reduced
to three selections: band, frequency, and polarization. The RSLC formal product specification is
able to represent both L and S band datasets, so the `band` selector has two possible values. The
`rslc` reader that is managing this data product found an L band group in the file, so `L` is shown
in a normal font; the absence of an S band product is indicated by the dimmed `S`. Moving on, the
NISAR instruments can operate in either of two frequencies, named A and B, and either or both may be
present in a given data product. This particular only has an A frequency dataset, so `A` is shown as
available and `B` is dimmed. Similarly for the transmit/receive polarization pairs: there are four
possible choices, all of which are represented in the polarization line, but only one is available
in the current data product.

A **selector** is sequence of choices, one from each selection point, that help narrow down the set of
candidate datasets. A fully resolved selector has a values for each of the choices, and hence
corresponds to a single dataset, but selectors can be partial, as they will be while you are making
up your mind what to display.

Selecting a dataset to show is a problem that's a bit more dynamic than may be apparent from these
simple data products. It is possible for an L-band RSLC to have HH and HV polarizations for the A
frequency, but HH and VV polarizations for the B frequency. Therefore, the set of available choices
changes as you pick values for the various selection axes. `qed` uses selectors to allow for
arbitrarily complex relationships among the possible value sets, keeps track of your choices, and
always indicates what are viable options for the as yet unselected axes.

When you click anywhere on a data product tray, `qed` runs its selector solver through the your
selection, checking whether it has enough information to select a single dataset. This is trivial in
the case of this `rslc`: click anywhere on its tray and the display should look like this:

<Screenshot src="figures/qed-datasets-rslc-selectors.png" />

The selector solver ran through the possible options, determined that there is only one available
option for each axis, and automatically selected the corresponding values. Richer data products will
typically offer a mix of datasets, and the solver will require you to select some values before it
can identify the dataset of interest.

### <a name="#datasets.channels" />Picking a visualization channel

Once the selector points to a unique dataset, all that remains is to select the visualization
pipeline to deploy in order to map the pixel values in the dataset into color on the screen. `qed`
refers to the visualization pipeline choices as **channels**. As you can see, the three data
products present very different channel choices.

 For `rslc`, the channels are determined by the fact that its pixels are complex numbers. The
`amplitude` channel extracts the signal amplitude and displays it as a grayscale image; `phase`
extract the signal phase and uses an HSV color wheel to map angles to colors; `complex` combines
these two in a single color image with the pixel brightness tied to the amplitude and the color to
the phase. The `real` and `imaginary` channels present the corresponding signal parts as grayscale
images.

If you click on a channel selection, say `amplitude`, `qed` fills the data pane to the right of the
activity panel with the image that results form running the HH signal through the `amplitude`
visualization pipeline. Notice that the pane title is highlighted, indicating that this is the
active pane, and the title itself is built out of the reader name, the value of each selector in
order, and, finally, the channel name. This way, you always have an easy way of identifying which
dataset is on display in any given data pane.

<Screenshot src="figures/qed-datasets-rslc-channel.png" />

You can now scroll around the image. The `qed` server fetches data tiles, runs them through the
selected visualization pipeline, and ships them to the client on demand, so you may notice a tiny
delay while scrolling as new tiles are requested and come into view.

You can dismiss the pane by click on the <Badge><X/></Badge> icon, which will bring the display
back to its initial state, with no selected reader and an empty data pane.

You may have noticed that a few more icons have popped up on the data pane title bar. Clicking on
the <Badge><Camera/></Badge> icon will take a screenshot of the exact contents of the data pane and
save them as a bitmap on your disk. The <Badge><Eye/></Badge> icon toggles synchronized scrolling
for this data pane; more on this in the section on working with multiple panes. Finally, the
<Badge><Target/></Badge> icon toggles the measure layer, which is covered in detail in the
section on working with the measure layer.

Another thing you may have noticed are the two lines above the image itself that show pixel and
cursor values. The are part of the **info** panel. The cursor line always shows the current location
of the cursor in screen coordinates, whereas pixel refers to image coordinates that depend on the
data product, zoom level, and other factors. The info panel has a host of other useful metadata
about the data product that you can reveal or hide by clicking on the `more` and `less` controls.
Fully expanded, the info panel should look something like this:

<Screenshot src="figures/qed-datasets-rslc-info.png" />

### <a name="#datasets.availability" />Data products and channels

Currently, unwrapped interferograms present a single channel, the unwrapped phase. The GUNW product
contains a wealth of other information that would be useful to visualize, so there is an effort
underway to identify interesting signal and design appropriate visualization pipelines.

GCOV data products don't have transmit/receive polarization pairs; instead, they present the
possible covariance terms as the `cov` selector. The diagonal terms are real valued, so their
channels have two options: the raw signal value or its absolute value. The complex values
off-diagonal terms have the same channels as the `rslc` datasets above.

{/* end of file */}

